# Spectral template interpolation of AMBRE
Stellar model templates for flux calibration are prepared based on the AMBRE template set. To obtain models at smaller parameter steps than the original ones of AMBRE, the AMBRE templates are interpolated along model parameters (effective temperature, surface gravity, metallicity, and alpha element index) using the radial basis function. 

## AMBRE
<!-- ### About AMBRE -->
AMBRE is a high resolution stellar model templates (de Laverny et al. 2012, A&A, 544, 126). The wavelength coverage is from 300 nm to 1200 nm. The original resolution is 0.001 nm/pix. There are four parameters of Teff, log(g), Z, [alpha/Fe]. 

<!-- ### Input data for interpolation -->
Out of the AMBRE templates, 3190 model templates with Teff = 5500 - 8000 K and plane-parallel atmosphere are used as input data of the interpolation.
The spectral resolution is reduced down to 0.01 nm/pix by pixel binning to reduce a number of calculation.
The templates are stored as a FITS format file of 0.4 MB size. In total, 1.27 GB.

## Interpolation method
Interpolated spectral template is produced using the radial basis function (RBF) interpolation (`scipy.interpolate.Rbf`). Four dimensional interpolation (Teff, log(g), Z, [alpha/Fe]) at each wavelength pixel is performed with `multiquadric` Kernel.

A single RBF model is generated and is save as a pickle file through `makeRBFInterpolationModel.py`. `modelInterpolation.py` reads this model file.
In a NAOJ computer (8 cores, 3.8GHz CPU, 64 GB memory), it takes about 16 hours to generate a RBF model. The size of the RBF pickle model file is 15 GB.

The accuracy of interpolated models is high and RMS is less than 1% in most cases, but low accuracies of >1% RMSs are observed in some cases (12% of all 192 test parameter points).

## Codes 
- `makeRBFInterpolationModel.py` \
Generate an RBF model of a pickle file. Need to specify a location of AMBRE templates, a file name of an input table listing AMBRE templates, a file name of an output model, and a number of processes for parallel processing. Require `parallel.py`.
- `modelInterpolation.py`\
Read an RBF pickle model file and generate an interpolated model at a given parameter point. Require `parallel.py`.